You're getting this error from Alembic during a database migration:

sqlalchemy.exc.ProgrammingError: (psycopg2.errors.DuplicateTable) relation "organization" already exists

🔥 Problem Explained

You’re running a migration that includes:

op.create_table('organization', ...)


But the table organization already exists in your PostgreSQL database.

This could mean:

You manually created the table before running the migration.

You applied the schema via SQL or SQLAlchemy before Alembic had a record of it.

You already applied this migration once, then reset the alembic_version table or re-ran it.

✅ Solution Options
✅ Option 1: Delete the Migration (If Table Exists and Matches Schema)

If the organization table already exists and is correct, just delete or skip the migration script:

migrations/versions/4481595c5f02_<empty_message>.py


Then run:

alembic stamp head


This tells Alembic: “Don't apply this migration, but treat the schema as up-to-date.”

✅ Option 2: Convert to op.create_table(..., if_not_exists=True)

This is not natively supported by Alembic, but you can use raw SQL as a workaround:

from sqlalchemy import text

op.execute(text("""
DO $$
BEGIN
    IF NOT EXISTS (SELECT 1 FROM information_schema.tables 
                   WHERE table_name = 'organization') THEN
        CREATE TABLE organization (
            id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
            name VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
            ...
        );
    END IF;
END
$$;
"""))


Use this only if you're confident that creating the table won’t conflict with model expectations.

✅ Option 3: Drop the Table Before Creating It (DEV ONLY)

For a clean dev-only reset, you could modify the migration to:

op.execute("DROP TABLE IF EXISTS organization CASCADE;")
op.create_table('organization', ...)


But ⚠️ this deletes data. Use only if you’re testing or rebuilding from scratch.

✅ Best Practice Going Forward

Always check for existing tables before creating migrations.

Let Alembic manage tables instead of raw SQL or SQLAlchemy create_all() in production.

Use alembic current and alembic history to debug versioning issues.

Would you like me to:

Auto-fix the migration script and give you the text?

Generate a clean migration that backfills or alters instead?

Give you a short checklist for production-safe migration handling?

Let me know how aggressive or cautious you want to be.