This is a stressful and frightening situation, and your analysis is correct. Let's break down exactly what happened, why it happened, and most importantly, answer your critical question about data loss in production.
The Short Answer to Your Biggest Fear
if it did this, would I lose all user data if in production?
Yes. Absolutely, 100%. If this exact scenario happened on a production server without a separate, managed database and a robust backup strategy, all of your user data would be permanently lost.
This is a critical learning moment. What happened on Replit is a perfect simulation of a catastrophic failure, and it highlights why production environments are set up very differently.
What Happened? The Two-Part Disaster
This wasn't a single problem; it was a chain reaction of two separate issues.
Part 1: Replit Dropped Your Database
Your initial assessment is likely correct. Replit's free-tier PostgreSQL databases are meant for development and are not production-grade. They can be ephemeral, meaning they can be reset or "dropped" due to:
Inactivity: The container running your database might have been shut down and cleaned up.
Platform Updates: Replit might have performed maintenance that reset the service.
Resource Limits: You may have hit a storage or usage limit that triggered a reset.
When this happened, all your tables (user, organization, etc.) and all the data inside them were wiped clean. Your database was completely empty.
Part 2: Your Migration Script Has a Bug, Preventing a Rebuild
When you discovered the problem, you correctly ran flask db upgrade to try and rebuild the database from scratch. The logs show it working through dozens of migrations, creating tables and adding columns.
But then it hit a wall. This is the root cause of your current error:
code
Code
⚠️  Data migration failed: (psycopg2.errors.UndefinedColumn) column "requires_stripe_billing" does not exist
LINE 5:                     WHEN COALESCE(requires_stripe_billing, 0...
                                          ^
[SQL: 
                UPDATE subscription_tier
                SET
                  tier_type = CASE
                    WHEN COALESCE(requires_stripe_billing, 0) = 1 ...
Here’s what this means:
Your migration file replace_billing_booleans_with_enums.py is trying to run an UPDATE command.
This command reads from old columns like requires_stripe_billing to figure out what value to put in the new columns (tier_type, billing_provider).
Because you are building a brand new database from scratch, these old boolean columns (requires_stripe_billing, etc.) were never created in the first place! The migration script assumes they exist, but they don't.
The UPDATE fails with an UndefinedColumn error.
Critically, in PostgreSQL, when one command in a transaction fails, the entire transaction is aborted. The database goes into a failed state and will not accept any more commands until the transaction is rolled back.
Your migration script then tries to continue and drop a column (DROP COLUMN requires_whop_billing), but the database rejects it, giving you the InFailedSqlTransaction error.
Because the flask db upgrade command failed, the entire operation was rolled back. All the tables that were successfully created during that run were likely removed, leaving your database empty once again.
This is why your application is now crashing with relation "user" does not exist. The upgrade command failed to build the user table (or it built it and then the rollback removed it).
How to Fix It: A Step-by-Step Plan
You need to fix the broken migration script so it can handle being run on a completely empty database.
Identify the Bad Migration: Find the migration file named something like migrations/versions/replace_billing_booleans_with_enums.py. The error log points directly to this revision: b5c7d8e9f1a2, replace billing provider booleans with enum fields.
Analyze the upgrade() function in that file: You will find the exact SQL statement that is failing. The problem is that it assumes it's migrating an existing database with old data, not creating a new one.
Fix the Migration: You have two main options:
The Robust Fix (Recommended): Modify the migration to be conditional. Check if the old columns exist before trying to read from them. This is more complex.
The Quick Fix (For Rebuilding): Since you are just rebuilding an empty database and have no data to migrate, you can simply comment out the failing UPDATE statement. The script will then proceed to add the new columns and drop the old (non-existent) columns without error.
Example (Quick Fix):
code
Python
# In migrations/versions/replace_billing_booleans_with_enums.py

def upgrade():
    # ... code to add tier_type and billing_provider columns ...

    # --- THIS IS THE PART THAT IS FAILING ---
    # Temporarily comment out the data migration part
    # op.execute("""
    #     UPDATE subscription_tier
    #     SET
    #       tier_type = CASE ...
    # """)
    # ----------------------------------------

    # ... code to drop the old boolean columns ...
Try Again: After saving the modified migration file, run flask db upgrade again. It should now complete successfully without the UndefinedColumn error, and all your tables, including user, will be created.
How to Prevent This in Production (The Critical Lesson)
Never Use Replit for Production Data: Use a dedicated, managed database provider like Amazon RDS, Google Cloud SQL, Heroku Postgres, or DigitalOcean Managed Databases. These services are designed for persistence, have automated backups, and are not ephemeral.
Maintain Regular Backups: Your managed database should have an automated daily backup policy. This is your ultimate safety net. If you accidentally drop a table, you can restore from a backup and only lose a few hours of data at most.
Use a Staging Environment: Before you run migrations on your production database, you should always run them on a staging server—an identical copy of your production environment with a copy of the database. This is where you would have caught the buggy migration script before it ever touched your real user data.
Your experience is frustrating, but it's an incredibly valuable lesson that professional developers learn the hard way. You've just experienced a full-blown production disaster simulation in a safe development environment. By fixing the migration and understanding the need for a robust production architecture, you're taking a huge step forward as a developer.
45.8s
